If you can believe it,
everything that I've been talking
about today has been about testing.
Like every pattern,
everything that we went through,
that ultimately it's designed
to make testing easier.
So I really absolutely
believe it is impossible to
write good tests for bad code.
What are we've been talking about all day?
Good code, good angular applications,
high quality angular applications,
and really, I've been challenging
the kind of the premises in which
we think about writing large
scale apps for production.
And a major portion of that is,
where are we putting the complexity?
And so what I want to start out with,
with just a bit of commentary is,
let's look at some code.
So let's go with, The,
Widgets list component.
How do we test this?
Like, how would we write a unit test for
this?
I don't really have a good answer.
I mean,
I could think of some weird ways to do it.
But this is like comparing
one of those old platter of
hard drives to a solid state drive.
There's no moving pieces here.
This is the equivalent of
a solid state hard drive.
It's very stable.
How this would break, is if angular broke?
But here's the secret.
I know because I've written some.
I know for a fact that angular
has a ton of unit tests.
And so the idea that angular
would just blatantly break,
like their binding would be like,
it would be humorous at this point,
like it would be so implausible.
And so now when you look at this,
you realize,
we've written code that
without really having this as
being the primary focus that
we don't really have to test.
We've reduced the surface
area at the component layer,
at least at this component.
So let's go and let's look
at another component.
Same thing.
How do we test this?
Well, you could,
You could possibly test this setter,
but, Compared to like an effect,
this is a pretty low value,
low risk target.
Let's go a little bit further.
Let's look at our widgets component.
And this is where this gets interesting.
How would we test this
function right here?
So let's take a stab at this.
It's helpful when you're writing
a test to verbally explain what it does.
And then in your explanation, you're going
to uncover some potentially problematic
things or you're going to realize whatever
you say it does like that's what you test.
And so in this case,
when I call loadWidgets,
It should call widgetsFace.loadWidgets.
That's it.
So you test only what that function does.
So a test for load widgets.
All I'm asserting is that,
when I call load widgets,
that it properly delegates and
calls, widgets facade, load widgets.
And so you can see even at
the container component layer,
there's not a lot to test.
This is by design.
And so if we look at the spec,
You'll notice here that when I call,
let's go up here,
Any of these, we can just pick one,
but, I'm saying,
when I select a widget on the component.
So let's look back here.
Select a widget, what does it do?
Well, it calls selectWidget and
passes that widget in.
So when I call selectWidget with
a mockWidget, what I'm verifying
is that I expect this spy to have
been called with this mockWidget ID.
So all ready, if you're new to testing and
testing is overwhelming,
I'm giving you a huge head start.
In that, if you want to get good at
testing, focus on writing good code.
What does that mean?
Very small, granular,
single purpose functions,
and then only test what that method does.
So, in a lot of ways,
we have covered the entire
component layer from
a unit testing standpoint.
Now, with that said,
let me offer some commentary
on the pieces here so
that we know what is happening.
And I'm going to, Choose,
well, this one will work.
But what I'm going to do is I'm going to
just short circuit this a little bit.
So when you write a test at the core,
you need to create
an environment in which that
thing that you wanna test can be spun up,
so
that you can interact with it and
make assertions.
So under the hood, what we need to do
is we need the ability, in this case,
to instantiate a widget component
in a controlled environment,
without having to spin up everything else.
How we do this is with the TestBed.
So in this case, TestBed,
configureTestingModule,
and then we define just
like an entry module or
declarations, which because
we have in our widgets
component two other components
need to declare them.
So it's just like you're
doing an entry module.
We need to import our dependencies or
an approximation of them,
for instance, you may notice that we
have this HttpClientTestingModule.
So we're using that in lieu
of the HTTP client module.
RouterTestingModule, if you
have the material module, well,
angular material has
a dependency on animations.
Well, you can replace that
with the noop animations.
And then as well, your services.
And I'm going to talk about
this in just a moment.
But I'm basically saying,
spin up this module and
then I want you to compile the components.
Now this is done asynchronously
because depending on how you
load your templates,
they could be external.
And so there's might be this small
asynchronous call, which grabs that.
Now, typically, I'm under the assumption
that everything is basically has been web
bundled to the max, and so I don't see
this happening a lot, but it is possible.
And so this is an asynchronous operation.
You are configuring the module and
compiling the components.
And then from there, you want to
actually instantiate the component.
So in the TestBed, we are getting,
we're saying create component and
you're passing the component you want
to create, which returns a fixture.
Now think of a fixture as this controlled
harness in which your
component is going to live in.
So it's not the component itself, but
it's the fixture for that component.
Then you can get an instance to that
component via fixture.componentInstance.
And so now,
what you can do is within this,
I mean this is an instance of
the component, so any properties methods
that you have on your actual component
class, is now available here.
And then, you'll notice here
that I have a debug element.
So I'm grabbing the debug
element off the fixture.
And what this is, is essentially
the template for that component.
So this is actually really, really cool.
This was super hard to
do in legacy AngularJS.
Now, it's actually not hard to do in
the sense of, I want to render this
component in memory and I want to make
assertions on the template itself.
So I could say, in this component,
I have this h1 tag and
it's bound to this property.
Expect the guts of this h1 tag to
basically render to this property.
Well, now you can say,
give me the debug element.
And then using a CSS selector,
you can grab an instance of that
h1 tag and test against it.
So it's kind of like end-to-end testing,
like that you testing some interactions.
I would say, use that sparingly but
it's pretty helpful,
especially when you're testing for
inputs and outputs on a child component.
So what I would do is, if I wanted
to actually test an output is that,
I would trigger that
via the debug element.
And then one little piece here,
that automatic change
detection is turned off on the fixture or
for your component.
And so what you have to do
is you have to manually say,
I've made this change, now detect changes.
And what this does is it allows you to
have greater control over how you write
your assertions pre-binding and
post binding.
I've never needed to do that, but
I can see or somebody would need that,
I need to make an assertion before it
renders and then after it renders.
And so
you have that ability if you need to.
And then from here which you
can see is I'm just calling
the methods like it's
just a regular class.
And so just to review, you have
essentially a test module that you spin
up, that kind of compiles everything
together, it's asynchronous.
And then from there, you get your test
fixture, which is kind of the environment
that your component is living in, and
then you can get access to the component,
the debug element, and
you can trigger change detection.